### Day 1: Trebuchet?!

Something is wrong with global snow production, and you've been
selected to take a look. The Elves have even given you a map; on it,
they've used stars to mark the top fifty locations that are likely to
be having problems.

You've been doing this long enough to know that to restore snow
operations, you need to check all <em class="star">fifty stars</em> by
December 25th.

Collect stars by solving puzzles.  Two puzzles will be made available
on each day in the Advent calendar; the second puzzle is unlocked when
you complete the first.  Each puzzle grants <em class="star">one
star</em>. Good luck!

You try to ask why they can't just use a [weather
machine](/2015/day/1) ("not powerful enough") and where they're even
sending you ("the sky") and why your map looks mostly blank ("you sure
ask a lot of questions") and hang on did you just say the sky ("of
course, where do you think snow comes from") when you realize that the
Elves are already loading you into a
[trebuchet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trebuchet) ("please hold
still, we need to strap you in").

As they're making the final adjustments, they discover that their
calibration document (your puzzle input) has been **amended** by a
very young Elf who was apparently just excited to show off her art
skills. Consequently, the Elves are having trouble reading the values
on the document.

The newly-improved calibration document consists of lines of text;
each line originally contained a specific **calibration value** that
the Elves now need to recover. On each line, the calibration value can
be found by combining the **first digit** and the **last digit** (in
that order) to form a single **two-digit number**.

For example:

    1abc2
    pqr3stu8vwx
    a1b2c3d4e5f
    treb7uchet

In this example, the calibration values of these four lines are `12`,
`38`, `15`, and `77`. Adding these together produces `**142**`.

Consider your entire calibration document. **What is the sum of all of
the calibration values?**

To begin, [get your puzzle input](1/input).

Answer: <input type="text" name="answer" autocomplete="off"/> <input
type="submit" value="[Submit]"/>

You can also [Shareon   [Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?tex
t=%22Trebuchet%3F%21%22+%2D+Day+1+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2023&amp;url=http
s%3A%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2023%2Fday%2F1&amp;related=ericwastl&am
p;hashtags=AdventOfCode)   <a href="javascript:void(0);" onclick="var
ms; try{ms=localStorage.getItem('mastodon.server')}finally{} if(typeof
ms!=='string')ms=''; ms=prompt('Mastodon Server?',ms); if(typeof
ms==='string' && ms.length){this.href='https://'+ms+'/share?text=%22Tr
ebuchet%3F%21%22+%2D+Day+1+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2023+%23AdventOfCode+htt
ps%3A%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2023%2Fday%2F1';try{localStorage.setIt
em('mastodon.server',ms);}finally{}}else{return false;}"
target="_blank">Mastodon</a >] this puzzle.

