### Day 3: Gear Ratios

You and the Elf eventually reach a [gondola
lift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gondola_lift) station; he says the
gondola lift will take you up to the **water source**, but this is as
far as he can bring you. You go inside.

It doesn't take long to find the gondolas, but there seems to be a
problem: they're not moving.

"Aaah!"

You turn around to see a slightly-greasy Elf with a wrench and a look
of surprise. "Sorry, I wasn't expecting anyone! The gondola lift isn't
working right now; it'll still be a while before I can fix it." You
offer to help.

The engineer explains that an engine part seems to be missing from the
engine, but nobody can figure out which one. If you can **add up all
the part numbers** in the engine schematic, it should be easy to work
out which part is missing.

The engine schematic (your puzzle input) consists of a visual
representation of the engine. There are lots of numbers and symbols
you don't really understand, but apparently **any number adjacent to a
symbol**, even diagonally, is a "part number" and should be included
in your sum. (Periods (`.`) do not count as a symbol.)

Here is an example engine schematic:

    467..114..
    ...*......
    ..35..633.
    ......#...
    617*......
    .....+.58.
    ..592.....
    ......755.
    ...$.*....
    .664.598..

In this schematic, two numbers are **not** part numbers because they
are not adjacent to a symbol: `114` (top right) and `58` (middle
right). Every other number is adjacent to a symbol and so **is** a
part number; their sum is `**4361**`.

Of course, the actual engine schematic is much larger. **What is the
sum of all of the part numbers in the engine schematic?**

To begin, [get your puzzle input](3/input).

Answer: <input type="text" name="answer" autocomplete="off"/> <input
type="submit" value="[Submit]"/>

You can also [Shareon   [Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?tex
t=%22Gear+Ratios%22+%2D+Day+3+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2023&amp;url=https%3A
%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2023%2Fday%2F3&amp;related=ericwastl&amp;ha
shtags=AdventOfCode)   <a href="javascript:void(0);" onclick="var ms;
try{ms=localStorage.getItem('mastodon.server')}finally{} if(typeof
ms!=='string')ms=''; ms=prompt('Mastodon Server?',ms); if(typeof
ms==='string' && ms.length){this.href='https://'+ms+'/share?text=%22Ge
ar+Ratios%22+%2D+Day+3+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2023+%23AdventOfCode+https%3
A%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2023%2Fday%2F3';try{localStorage.setItem('
mastodon.server',ms);}finally{}}else{return false;}"
target="_blank">Mastodon</a >] this puzzle.

